If we could just start with that little story again.
Well, I was getting together material for this class to show them what we had.
This fifth grade class.
This fifth grade class from a local school.
And they were coming in to see elements of this Johnson family collection.
Right, which included, there was an autograph, a George Washington autograph.
There was a number of Revolutionary War items.
And so I thought, well, what else do we have from that period?
Our collections are not especially strong in...
American colonial war.
But we do have Lafayette papers.
And in the Lafayette papers, there was a letter written by Lafayette's daughter to George Washington.
Seven-year-old girl writing in English to George Washington.
And she was saying that, I'm sorry that my papa isn't home, but I'm glad that he's with you.
And it's written to Washington, Virginia.
And they were enthralled by that.
They were just
And they all wanted copies.
Yeah, but I mean, it's almost a throwback that a kid would find the interaction with text without any pictures magical in L.A.
I was very surprised.
That doesn't happen today.
Usually it's the stuff with whiz-bang.
I mean, they had walked over because it was a local school.
I'm just going to write down the title of that.
Is that something people can buy?
No, partially because the software that is on it is not, is proprietary.
Okay, I'm sorry.
So it was, but I was surprised too.
I really, you know, because then they came back the next term to do Civil War, and we had one of the five copies of the Gettysburg Address.
That was not interesting to them at all.
That's amazing.
So what was there so magical about it?
I think the idea that it was written by a child.
The way people react to rare books and manuscripts is, to a certain extent, the direct connection.
That I'm touching something that somebody held, somebody wrote 100 years ago, 200 years ago, 500 years ago.
and I think there really is that I write about that in my book I mean it's a tactile experience that I get dizzy over yeah and we do too I mean it's and you don't it doesn't get old it gets more it gets more wonderful yeah I'll tell you the story the tape was off just the last week and we found this I'm going you continue anything else to that story I'm sorry so I think that
For these children, the idea that this was something that had been written by a child made it a direct connection to them in a way that, well, this is a big historical document.
Was the child anyone of significance?
Did it matter who the child was or who it had?
Well, they knew about Lafayette.
They'd been studying Lafayette.
It was to George Washington, which obviously did make a big difference to them, George Washington.
Everybody knows George Washington.
But it surprised me.
And I've tried it on other children and gotten very similar responses.
Children who come in.
Who just come in, yeah, or children of staff or something like that.
Yeah, that's great.
We will have that up on the website very soon, actually, that letter.
Okay.
What would I look forward to?
It'll either say Lafayette or French Revolution or something, because there is a... I wonder if I can show you the test.
I don't know.
How do I slow this thing down?
This is driving me nuts.
This is going to go faster.
It's better than I do.
We just went through this little exercise of this letter.
And what we decided was, let's say, that I want to write something about this letter, that on a score, Sierra, uh, well, for you that sent to General Walsh in 1784, you know, listen to that.
Well, I'm doing essential.
see a primary document.
Right.
We can't determine from this sphere on the screen whether there's wax, whether there's a stamp on it on the other side.
You only show one side of this thing, or is there anything on the other side?
Well, I can't believe it, because you can see it.
Okay.
Bet you didn't photoreal.
You didn't scan the other side.
And what you were saying was, what are you trying to tell me?
This is interesting.
This is detective.
Okay, you have one thing.
Did Washington receive this money?
Did he respond to this money?
Do we know?
If we don't know, what could we project about it?
What could we envision?
Imagine.
Right.
We know that Lafayette was here.
She's saying he was here.
Did Washington write to any kids?
Now, what was Washington's relationship?
He had no children with his own.
That's right.
And that's what we want to tell students at the graduate high school.
History is interesting.
History is people who live lives, who do the sorts of things that you do, who do the sorts of things.
I might have a story out of this.
I might have an increase or something.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, I think it's a certain way.
It's something that's worth checking with.
Oh, it's beyond that.
Yeah, well, I mean, just go through this whole process.
This process is what we're doing here.
You know, when Mark Fry or any of the other people here bring out materials to show to students, those are the kind of questions we want them to sort of ask.
What did he do?
Yeah.
What's behind it?
Well, I hope.
of things in our collections for one was four children, one was four girls.
Looking at our collections for things that were five, four, or about children.
What did you come up with?
I can give you a point of one on the media list.
But, uh, I could use the most of my word.
Let me see.
I'm here with the hope that you'll tell me something about the digital programs that you do here.
Can we just enter the discussion?
Tell me a little bit about what you do here at... Well, I can... Well, let me just say, I am really very interested in writing a book that will have a chapter on future libraries, books of the future.
Of course, my current book is a pan to printed books.
So I come in with...
a predisposition to love printing books, but on the other hand, as you can see, I love technology.
What is it about Cornell that makes you a leader, I guess, in this technology?
Why don't I give you some background history on what we've done, and then we can enter into an exchange of questions and answers or comments.
We have...
Our preservation program, as you learned from John yesterday, is 11 years old.
And one of the principal focuses has been dealing with the crisis of brittle paper.
And we estimate probably upwards to a million volumes here at Cornell are endangered by their having been printed on acidic paper.
That for them to be preserved, they'll have to be reformatted
NEH funded efforts in the mid-'80s to launch massive microfilming projects.
We were involved with them.
We continue to be involved with them.
We selectively mined our best collections to create preservation-quality microfilms, starting with our Southeast Asian materials, looking at our Icelandic collection, other collections as well, Peruvian, South American materials.
And these art collections are acknowledged because, of course, the question of selectivity is always one answer.
There's a ranking of a conspectus ranking for libraries.
It's a self-ranking process to identify those of where you fit on a scale of one to five.
Five would be comprehensive, that you have collected everything in the past and continue.
Five is the highest.
And we focus on our level fives for the retrospective conversion of the informational content.
So it's not hard, actually, to decide.
It's not all that hard.
Yeah.
We're systematically working our way through.
It's pretty obvious.
You don't have to have a PhD that says, should we do a Lafayette collection?
You know, that's pretty easy.
It's pretty easy.
What we do with our baseline program here is to address that material which is endangered and used, regardless of where it fits in the discipline.
And projects are focusing on our depths.
And that we focus on the best of what we have, which are the Level 5s, some of the Level 4s.
We also look at where the opportunities for funding, because all of these efforts have been funded from the outside.
How did they decide what to fund?
They being the funding agencies?
They being the entities outside the university.
Well, the NEH, National Endowment for the Humanities, has been one of our principal funders, but not our only.
You have Kodak, for instance.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, we've been very successful in grant writing in this department.
Mellon has funded us Culpepper a whole range of funders but are they interested in specific projects or are they interested in the program I guess they're interested in they have programs of their own and if you can fit your project into their general guidelines and write a convincing grant you know you can get funded could you give me an example for instance
Well, the NEH Brittle Books Program.
Brittle Books Program.
Right, which is to create preservation quality microfilm for the contents of significant books printed in the 19th and early 20th centuries.
And just interestingly enough, the Brittle Books do kind of fall into that.
chronological period, don't they?
The ones prior to that are in great shape.
That's right.
And we found with our Southeast Asian holdings that up through to today they're becoming brittle very quickly because of the lignin content of the paper used in Southeast Asia.
We're finding books as recent as 20 years are now brittle.
So we have moved our microfilming for
Southeast Asian material up to about 1970.
And this is all done on site?
You do this all here?
No, we outsource our microfilming.
We also convert the material via preservation photocopy.
Some of that is done in-house.
and thus this entered us into an investigation in the use of digital technology.
So all of this is by background to say that we had bought the program of copying the contents of volumes that were endangered as a way of preserving the information that they contained.
And so when Xerox Corporation came to us in 1989,
to look at a joint demonstration project to use their prototype scanning system to capture the contents of brittle books and produce paper facsimiles of high quality.
We were interested because of the drawbacks of microfilm, which is
While it's long-lasting and can preserve detail pretty well, it's not real user-friendly, and it's not particularly good for graphic or illustrated material.
Preservation photocopy replicates the codex, but it's a one-for-one process.
Every time you need another copy, you end up doing the labor of copying the book.
page by page.
Scanning is done, and it's analogous to what microfilm is.
Once you've created your preservation master, you can create other copies, and with digital technology, with absolute fidelity to the original master.
Is there a contact person at Xerox that could tell me about this program that you can think of?
Bill Croca, and C-R-O-C-C-A,
D-O-O-C-C-A, and he's just at zero.
Yeah, and Glenn Alexander may be your best.
Glenn Alexander.
G-L-E-N-N, maybe, Alexander.
Let me see if I have a phone number for Glenn.
The background here is... That we had...
We were heavily involved in a project to reformat material, and we became... To reformat.
That's right, to recopy.
We call it reformat.
All right, just for the tape, so I don't labor over that word.
To reformat material.
Here's a number for Glenn.
I don't know if it's still valid or not.
716-777-3326.
And that's at Xerox?
Yes, in Rochester.
And I can say you gave me his name.
We had looked at scanning as an opportunity
Prior to the Xerox context and the quality of the scanning resolutions in the mid-'80s was not sufficient for replacement purposes, which is what we were interested in in a preservation context.
The mid-'80s is almost the incunabulum period of this.
Well, scanning technology's been around for a while.
It was coupled with OCR technology for a long time, and the use of digital images, which was the raw digital file that was used for OCRing, was pretty much a byproduct rather than the primary product at that time.
But with the increase in personal computing, high bandwidth
high-speed networks, high-production, high-quality scanning systems, and particularly with the advent of the World Wide Web, we see digital image technology really coming more into its own, in the 90s particularly.
It's got a lot of applications in government and in business, back-file conversion sorts of things to optical imaging systems.
And within universities,